# Coursera_Capstone
## Applied Data Science Capstone Project - The Battle of Neighborhoods

### Problem & discussion of background:
Comparison of two global cities in Europe (London and Paris) to see how similar or dissimilar they are. Picking a city, when it comes to London and Paris is always a hard decision as both London and Paris are global cities found at the heart of two European countries. They are Europe’s important diplomatic centres along with being major centres for finance, commerce, sciences, fashion, arts, culture and gastronomy in their respective countries. Both London (capital of the United Kingdom) and Paris (capital of France) have a rich history and are two of the most visited and sought-after cities in Europe. London is the largest city within the UK and stands on River Thames in South East England. Paris, on the other hand, is located in the north-central part of the nation. Similar to London, the city also stands along a river, commonly known as the Seine River. 
The objective of this study is to perform a city-to-city comparison and find similar neighbourhoods between London and Paris based on a venue based comparison approach. For the purpose of the study, I plan to compare the major Boroughs in London with the corresponding administrative districts (arrondissements municipaux) in Paris. What I plan to achieve is to find similar neighbourhoods among the cities based on amenities or services being offered locally. Such techniques allow us to identify similar neighborhoods among cities, and thus can help in understanding the local area activities, what are the hubs of different activities, how citizens are experiencing the city, and how they are utilizing its resources. There are many practical questions which can be answered using such a comparison. For instance, a job seeker with transferable skills may wish to search for jobs in selective cities/ a single city which provide the most suitable match for her qualifications and experience, in terms of salaries, social benefits, or even in terms of a culture fit for expats. Further, a person buying or renting a home in a new city may want to compare the neighhbourhoods of the city to other cities known to her. Such a study would help in recommending locations in the new city. Similarly, a large corporation looking to expand its locations to other cities might benefit from such an analysis. Many within-city urban planning computations might also benefit from modelling a city’s relationship to other cities. Thus, the problem has numerous applications in analysis of cities and urban planning.
### Dataset:
To solve the problem at hand, we will extract information from data. Neighbourhood information and their corresponding coordinates for both the cities will be extracted from their respective Wikipedia pages or the Geopy client (if necessary).
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrondissements_of_Paris
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_London_boroughs
In addition, we will take advantage of Foursquare API location data to extract venue based information for each of the neighbourhoods. Venue information can be restricted within a fixed radius of each location to limit the search. We will use this data to find the top and unique venues in each of the neighbourhoods. We can then also perform a clustering analysis to cluster neighbourhoods in each city based on the similarities on the types of venues it has to offer. City-to-city comparison of the main neighbourhoods can then be performed to see for similarities or dissimilarities based on venue data.
